Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.
Programming languages are used in computer programming to implement algorithms. Most programming languages consist of
instructions for computers.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets.
It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar),
a documentation generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software suite that consolidates basic tools required to write and test software.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. There is a multitude of IDEs available for working with Java. While Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, and NetBeans are the big three of Java, there are numerous other IDEs for developing apps effectively using Java.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).

   There are three main stages in the life cycle of a java program. They are:
   Editing the program >> Compiling the source code >> Executing the byte code

what is class?
A.>>Everything in Java is associated with classes and objects, along with its attributes and methods. For example: in real life, a car is an object. The car has attributes, such as weight and color, and methods, such as drive and brake.
  A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

What is object?
A.>>In computer science, an object can be a variable, a data structure, a function, or a method, and as such, is a value in memory referenced by an identifier.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.>>Application entry points. An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access point to an application. Application entry points are used to control users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.

Why main is static?
A.>> Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined. In this case, main must be declared as public , since it must be called by code outside of its class when the program is started.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Java.lang.Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java.lang package. All predefined classes and user-defined classes are the subclasses from Object class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.>>Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files. 2). PATH is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.>>1) Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.	Interface can have only abstract methods. Since Java 8, it can have default and static methods also.
Abstract class doesn't support multiple inheritance. Interface supports multiple inheritance. Abstract class can have final, non-final, static and non-static variables. Interface has only static and final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.>>You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.) What you can do is to implement a subclass of abstract class which, of course, must not be abstract.

what is Access Specifier?
A.>> Access specifiers is called Access modifiers are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members. In Java, having no keyword before defaults to the package-private modifier

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.>> Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming language model that organizes software design around data, or objects, rather than functions and logic. An object can be defined as a data field that has unique attributes and behavior.What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Simply put, OOP focuses on the objects that developers want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them. This approach to programming is well-suited for programs that are large, complex and actively updated or maintained. Due to the organization of an object-oriented program, this method is also conducive to collaborative development where projects can be divided into groups. Additional benefits of OOP include code reusability, scalability  and efficiency.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.>>API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. Each time you use an app like Facebook, send an instant message, or check the weather on your phone, you’re using an API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A:>>java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can use multiple inheritances . No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A:>> java does not support multiple inheritances through classes but through the interfaces, we can use multiple inheritances . No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overriding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A:>> An exception object is an instance of an exception class. It gets created and handed to the Java runtime when an exceptional event occurred that disrupted the normal flow of the application. This is called “to throw an exception” because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A:>>In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods, blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A:>>final keyword is used in different contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. Following are different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A:>> Final is a keyword.Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. 2)

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a special method that is used to initialize a newly created object and is called just after the memory is allocated for the object. It can be used to initialize the objects to desired values or default values at the time of object creation.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A:>> A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same. You can define as many constructors as you need. When a Java class contains multiple constructors, we say that the constructor is overloaded (comes in multiple versions).

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A:>> All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor. ... If the parent has no constructor ( Object does have one), the compiler will reject the program.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A:>> Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A:>> The super keyword in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
     Whenever we can create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable.
     Usage of Java super Keyword in 3 way
     super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
     super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.
     super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
A:>> A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs as well as programs written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode.

Is JVM platform independent
A:>> The JVM is not platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
A:>> Im useing JAVA 1.8(or 8) version

What is JAR stand for ?
A:>> JAR stands for Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A:>> JDK is for development purpose whereas JRE is for running the java programs. JDK and JRE both contains JVM so that we can run our java program. JVM is the heart of java programming language and provides platform independence.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A:>> First of all JDK contains JRE+development tools, JRE contains JVM+class libraries, where JVM contains (class loader & byte code verifier) and the Execution engine (interpreter & JIT).
     The compiler will convert the source code into intermediate byte codes. Where this byte codes is given to JVM for execution, the class loader in the JVM will load the byte codes and does linking with class libraries provided by the JRE.

What is compile time and run time?
A:>> Compile-time is the instance where the code you entered is converted to executable while Run-time is the instance where the executable is running. ... Compile-time checking occurs during the compile time.

What is heap?
A Heap is a special Tree-based data structure in which the tree is a complete binary tree.

How java manage it's memory?
A:>> The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects) and finally provides the runtime environment.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuider are mutable classes. StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not, thats why StringBuilder is more faster than StringBuffer. String concat + operator internally uses StringBuffer or StringBuilder class.

What is Singleton class?
A:>>In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time. ... To design a singleton class: Make constructor as private. Write a static method that has return type object of this singleton class.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory. This mechanism is used to persist the object.

when to use transient variable in java?
The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any instance of that class. A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A:>> the main difference between a while loop and do while loop is that while loop check condition before iteration of the loop. On the other hand, the do-while loop verifies the condition after the execution of the statements inside the loop. ... Conversely, the do while loop is called the exit controlled loop

What is Enum?
A:>> An enum is a user-defined type consisting of a set of named constants called enumerators. The colors of the rainbow would be mapped like this.: Now internally, the compiler will use an int to hold these and if no values are supplied, red will be 0, orange is 1 etc.

What is Iterator?
A:>>Java Enums. An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants (unchangeable variables, like final variables). To create an enum , use the enum keyword (instead of class or interface), and separate the constants with a comma.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A:>> The integer, on the other hand, is more flexible in storing and manipulating int data. Since Wrapper classes inherit Object class, they can be used in collections with Object reference or generics. The static method occupies less space and memory allocation happens once. A non-static method may occupy more space.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A:>>The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool. ... Another reason of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap. Since Strings are very popular as HashMap key, it's important for them to be immutable so that they can retrieve the value object which was stored in HashMap.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A:>>Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object. Constructor chaining can be done in two ways: Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A:>>serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation

What is JIT stands for?
A:>>JIT stands for Just In time compilation

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A:>>Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A:>>Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A:>> The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A:>>Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time. It is also possible to instantiate new objects, invoke methods and get/set field values using reflection.

what is multithreading in java?
A:>>Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A:>> Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
A:>> Frameworks are large bodies (usually many classes) of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain. ... You make use of a framework by calling its methods, inheritance, and supplying "callbacks", listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern. Constrast to library.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A:>> Here are my top '8 tools to help you with Java testing (& Frameworks)'.
Arquillian...
JTest. ...
The Grinder. ...
TestNG. ...
JUnit. ...
JWalk. ...
Mockito. ...
Powermock.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A:>> Major difference in TestNG and JUnit test frameworks is their scope. I suggest to use TestNG as core unit test framework for Java project, because TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing (Grouping concept). TestNG is meant for high-level testing and complex integration test.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A:>> Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a finish-to-start relationship. Task P (predecessor) must be finished before task S (successor) can start.

what is dependency injection in java?
A:>> In software engineering, dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object. ... In Java, before we can use methods of other classes, we first need to create the object of that class

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A:>> Static binding happens at compile-time while dynamic binding happens at runtime. Binding of private, static and final methods always happen at compile time since these methods cannot be overridden. The binding of overloaded methods is static and the binding of overridden methods is dynamic









